Let's fix the security vulnerabilities in our support service.
In the admin controller of the support service,
we want only users with the admin role to access these features and
clients with the scope portfolio-service-admin.
We could do that by using the mvcMatcher in our
WebSecurityConfigurationAdapter to apply this at the URL level.
But we can also do the same in our admin controller by simply enabling method
authorization using the EnableGlobalMethodSecurity annotation.
We can use the preauthorize annotation on any of the REST
methods to check for the role admin and scope.
For scopes, we use the hasAuthority.
For the admin role, we can use the hasRole ADMIN.
For scopes, we can use the hasAuthority.
And to combine them into one, we could use the hasAnyAuthority annotation.
For the admin role,
we need to include the ROLE_ prefix as that is how it is
stored in the granted authorities.
The hasRole method did the prefixing for us.
For the scope, we use the SCOPE_ prefix.
In our support query controller for the getQueries method,
we can use the preauthorize to allow clients to perform actions
on behalf of administrators who have consented to the admin scope
to view anyone's support queries, while non-admin users can only view their own.
We allow access if the principal has a role and scope of
admin or if they have a role of USER,
and the username path variable matches the preferred
username in the JWT token claims.
Basically, administrators can view all queries and respond to them.
Users can only view their own and respond to those.
If the admin is using the React UI, it will not include the admin scope,
and hence they won't be able to view all the queries
and perform administration tasks.
There is also a PostAuthorize annotation where you can perform
security checks prior to the method being returned so you can
interrogate the objects being returned, modify them,
remove things from collections, etc.
You can see how powerful Spring expressions are.
Next,
we will look at how you can learn more about Spring expressions and authorization.